---
title: "Using mathjax on GitHub Pages with Jekyll"
excerpt: "A tutorial on how to set up mathjax on GitHub Pages with Jekyll"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Random
tags:
  - Jekyll
  - mathjax
  - GitHub Pages
  - blog
mathjax: true
---
# Why this post

As I realize that I need to write a bunch of math formulas in my blog, I am searching for a way to write $$\LaTeX$$ in Markdown and then render that in HTML. mathjax jumps on my browser when I search on Google. However, when I try to integrate it with Jekyll (specifically, GitHub pages), I ran into errors after following many (top-ranked) stackoverflow / official doc instructions.

# What do you need to do -- Simple 4 Steps

Disclaimer:

The following guide has been proved to work on GitHub Pages using Jekyll. The theme you use should not affect anything, but I can only say for Minimal Mistakes (the theme I chose to use) everything works perfectly.

Note that It may (and will!) be different if you use other blog frameworks (e.g. Hexo) or are hosting your sites on other platforms.

1. In your `\_config.yml`, stick with **kramdown**. Some instructions may tell you to go with maruku or redcarpet. **Don't**. Those instructions are either outdated or do not fit GitHub Pages. Keep using kramdown by making sure there is no `markdown: xxx` (xxx is something other than kramdown; it is also okay if you don't have this line as it is by default kramdown) in your `\_config.yml`. kramdown is the only Markdown engine GitHub Pages officially supports right now.

2. This step is sort of theme dependent: If you have `\_include` folder and there is either `script.html` or `head.html` there, you can add the following codes to one of those files. Otherwise, you may go to `\_layouts` and add the codes to `default.html`. Then your post / whatever sites that need mathjax should implicitly or explicitly be using the default layout.

   {% raw %}
   ~~~ html
{% if page.usemathjax %}
<script type="text/javascript" async
 src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
  </script>
{% end if %}
   ~~~
   {% endraw %}

   Some sites may ask you to use the code from this source: `http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML`. This does not work for me, but is worth trying. (I think this somehow relates to AMS that is used for autoNumber but didn't get it to work).

3. Then in the post / sites markdown file that you want to use mathjax, include the following in your YAML front matter (the table between three dash lines at the very beginning): `usemathjax: true`

   This will set `page.usemathjax` to True when Jekyll use the liquid template to generate HTML, and thus adding the script to you page.

4. To use mathjax, simply write your $$\LaTeX$$ codes between a double dollar-sign. Whahoo! That's it! You are all set!
